feat: Updated and clarified motivations (#89)
carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction: _episodes/01-introduction.md

- "What are containers, and why might they be useful to me?"
objectives:
- "Show how software depending on other software leads to configuration management problems."
- "Identify the problems that software installation can pose for research."

> - "Explain the advantages of application virtualization."

Reviewer: Looking at this again, I'm not sure if application virtualization is what we're covering here...maybe it should be application containerization? Or maybe this point can be left out altogether?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Explain the advantages of containerization."
```

- "Explain how using containers can solve software configuration problems"
keypoints:
- "Almost all software depends on other software components to function, but these components have independent evolutionary paths."
- "Small environments that contain only the software that is needed for a given task are easier to replicate and maintain."

> - "Critical systems that cannot be upgraded, due to cost, difficulty, etc. need to be reproduced on newer systems in a maintainable and self-documented way."

Reviewer: Perhaps rather than newer systems this should say newer hardware and in newer software environments (or something similar)?
```suggestion
- "Critical systems that cannot be upgraded, due to cost, difficulty, etc. need to be reproduced on newer hardware with newer operating systems, or software stacks, in a maintainable and self-documented way."
```

> - "Virtual environments allow pipelines to leverage tools from conflicting operating systems (or even conflicting versions!) simply and reliably without additional cost or hardware." 

Author: The point was more that you can create processing pipelines that are impossible on a single computer (e.g. run data through container A and pass results to container B that does some more stuff and returns the final output to the file system where the software/OS from A and B can not coexist on a single computer).

This is one of the biggest advantages of containers in my experience (medical image processing) and I should expand (just a bit) on it in the lesson...

> - "Virtual environments allow pipelines to leverage tools from conflicting operating systems (or even conflicting versions!) simply and reliably without additional cost or hardware." 

Reviewer: Ok, apologies, I missed the context of what you were referring to here. Maybe the original wording could be just slightly modified to add some further context? e.g. 

"_Virtual environments allow processing pipelines that involve the running of multiple tools or applications to leverage software running on conflicting operating systems (or even conflicting OS versions!) simply and reliably without additional cost or hardware._"

> - "Containerization takes virtualization one step further by making even smaller environments by avoiding all but the minimum software required."

Author: I understand what you're saying, but I think the phrase "the minimum software required" avoids questions like "what's the virtualization layer?", "how does a container optimize access to resources better than a VM?", and other details the student's don't really need to know and just adds to the cognitive load.

I agree it would be good to point out that even a "simple" executable relies on software contained in the OS and cannot be run in a "void" container, but I balk at going into the nitty gritty differences between VMs and containers.

- "Containers are built from 'recipes' that define the required set of software components and the instructions necessary to build/install them within a container image."
- "Docker is just one software platform that can create containers and the resources they use."
---
### Disclaimers

1. Docker is complex software used for many different purposes. We are unlikely to give examples that suit all of your potential ideal use-cases, but would be delighted to at least open up a discussion of what those use-cases might be.

> 2. Containers are a topic that requires significant amounts of technical background to understand in detail. Most of the time containers, particularly as wrapped up by Docker, do not require you to have a deep technical understanding of container technology, but when things go wrong, the diagnostic messages may turn opaque rather quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Containers are a topic that can require a significant amount of technical background to understand in detail. Most of the time containers, particularly as provided by Docker, do not require you to have a deep technical understanding of container technology in order to make use of them, but when things go wrong, the diagnostic messages may become difficult to understand.
```

- "What are containers, and why might they be useful to me?"
objectives:
- "Show how software depending on other software leads to configuration management problems."
- "Identify the problems that software installation can pose for research."

> - "Explain the advantages virtualization has over traditional computing."

Reviewer 2: Ideally, it might be good to be more specific about the type of virtualisation (I'm struggling to think of a good term though: "userspace virtualisation" is too "computer science", "application virtualisation" isn't quite right either). Could the "traditional computing" clause be left out possibly given that we talk elsewhere of how old virtualisation is—it felt like the point could be made on the basis of the "advantages" themselves?

Reviewer 3: What do you think about changing line 10 to...
```suggestion
- "Explain how using containers can solve software configuration problems"
```
this will keep the original language of line 10 but remove the two examples part

Reviewer 3: Oops realize the two examples one is right below, the diff was just confused.  What do you think about this one instead?
```suggestion
- "Explain the advantages of application virtualization."
```

> - "Give two examples of how containers can solve software configuration problems."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "Explain how using containers can solve software configuration problems"
```
As I mentioned above, maybe we should change this to remove the "two examples" specificity

keypoints:
- "Almost all software depends on other software components to function, but these components have independent evolutionary paths."

> - "Small environments that contain only the software that's absolutely needed for a given task are easier to replicate and maintain."

Reviewer 2: (Possibly remove "absolutely"? In my experience of others' container images, most images still contain quite a lot of software that may be excess to requirement.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "Small environments that contain only the software that is needed for a given task are easier to replicate and maintain."
```

- "Critical systems that cannot be upgraded, due to cost, difficulty, etc. need to be reproduced on newer systems in a maintainable and self-documented way."

> - "Virtualization was created to allow multiple environments to run on a single computer."

Reviewer 2: How about "Virtualisation allows multiple environments to run on a single computer."? (Although I'm dodging the above comment I made about the specific nature of virtualisation.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "Virtualization allows multiple environments to run on a single computer."
```

> - "Containerization takes virtualization one step further by making even smaller environments by avoiding all but the minimum software required."

Reviewer 2: I agree that this is the usual effect for many use cases, but the current wording suggests the software minimisation is necessarily the primary objective, although this is not the exclusive goal of the underlying technical mechanisms.  Containerisation makes (hardware) virtualisation "cheaper"... how about something like "Containerisation improves upon the virtualisation of whole computers by allowing efficient management of the host computer's memory and storage resources." ... although that may be too technically worded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "Containerization improves upon the virtualization of whole computers by allowing efficient management of the host computer's memory and storage resources."
```

> - "Containerization allows the creation of complex data pipelines that are impossible on a single system simply and reliably, without additional cost or hardware." 

Reviewer 2: I agree that containerisation typically makes such pipelines much more manageable, but strictly speaking anything a set of containers can do could be done even more resource efficiently at run-time by rebuilding the system without using the containers. (Without discussing security, etc.!)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - "Containers are built from 'recipes' that contain the minimum software components together and the installation instructions necessary to build them."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "Containers are built from 'recipes' that define the required set of software components and the instructions necessary to build/install them within a container image."
```

{: .challenge}

You may have come up with some of the following: 

- you want to use software that doesn't exist for the operating system (Mac, Windows, Linux) you'd prefer.

> - you struggle with installing a software tool because you have to install a bunch of other things first and those installs required *other* things, and those require *more* things, etc. (.i.e combinatoric explosion).

Author: I prefer the more casual tone myself.

- the software you're setting up involves many dependencies and only a subset of all possible versions of those dependencies actually works as desired.

> - you're not actually sure what software you're using because the install process was so circuitous. 

Author: Yeah, this was one of the points from the original that I kept but didn't fully understand it myself.  Maybe they meant "you're not actually sure what _version_ of the software you're using..." but 🤷‍♂️ .

> - you're not actually sure what software you're using because the install process was so circuitous. 

Reviewer: Looks like this probably needs revising a little to make it clearer then... 🙂

{: .challenge}

You may have come up with some of the following: 

- you want to use software that doesn't exist for the operating system (Mac, Windows, Linux) you'd prefer.

> - you struggle with installing a software tool because you have to install a bunch of other things first and those installs required *other* things, and those require *more* things, etc. (.i.e combinatoric explosion).

Reviewer 2: The periods in "i.e." have been transposed.

negative consequences for research: 
- you can't use a specific tool at all, because it's not available or installable. 
- you can't reproduce your results because you're not sure what tools you're actually using. 
- you can't access extra/newer resources because you're not able to replicate your software set up. 

> - others cannot validate and/or build upon your work because they cannot recreate your system's unicorn configuration.

Author: Hell, **I'm** not familiar with the Unicorn software! 😆   

I meant "unicorn" as a synonym for "unique/rare/one-of-a-kind" that would emphasize it's singular existence in all possible universes across time and space.  I'll surround it with quotes to prevent confusion.

> - others cannot validate and/or build upon your work because they cannot recreate your system's unicorn configuration.

Reviewer: Ok, maybe it's not that well known! 😆 I realised what you meant, happy to leave this in its original state.

negative consequences for research: 
- you can't use a specific tool at all, because it's not available or installable. 
- you can't reproduce your results because you're not sure what tools you're actually using. 
- you can't access extra/newer resources because you're not able to replicate your software set up. 
- others cannot validate and/or build upon your work because they cannot recreate your system's unicorn configuration.

Thankfully there are ways to get underneath (a lot of) this mess: containers 
to the rescue! Containers provide a way to package up software dependencies 
and access to resources such as files and communications networks in a uniform manner.

> ### Docker and What is a Container? 

Reviewer 2: The original idea was to introduce containers in abstract, which is why Docker isn't in the title... although then having "Docker" start the first sentence just adds cognitive load. How about "What is a Container? What is Docker?" maybe?

the amount of memory or RAM that your computer can use to store information 
temporarily while running programs; another is the hard drive, which can store 
information over the long-term. All these pieces work together to do the 
"computing" of a computer, but we don't see them because they're hidden from view (usually). 

Instead, what we see is our desktop, program windows, different folders, and 
files. These all live in what's called the file system. Everything on your computer - programs, 
pictures, documents - lives somewhere in the file system. One way to think of 
the file system is the layer of stuff that uses the CPU, memory and hard 
drive of your computer on your behalf.

> NOW, imagine you wanted to install some new software but don't want to take the chance 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOW, imagine you want to install some new software but don't want to take the chance
```

of making a mess of your existing system by installing a bunch of additional stuff 
(libraries/dependencies/etc.).
You don't want to buy a whole new computer because it's too expensive.

> What if, instead, you could have another filesystem that you could store and access from your main computer, but was inside your existing computer?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What if, instead, you could have another filesystem that you could store and access from your main computer, and that is actually stored within this existing computer?
```

the amount of memory or RAM that your computer can use to store information 
temporarily while running programs; another is the hard drive, which can store 
information over the long-term. All these pieces work together to do the 
"computing" of a computer, but we don't see them because they're hidden from view (usually). 

Instead, what we see is our desktop, program windows, different folders, and 
files. These all live in what's called the file system. Everything on your computer - programs, 
pictures, documents - lives somewhere in the file system. One way to think of 
the file system is the layer of stuff that uses the CPU, memory and hard 

> drive of your computer on your behalf.

Author: I would avoid using the term "container" when talking about the host file system so students don't get confused.  At this point we haven't even properly defined the term "container" and so students will assume a definition from this context that we'll very shortly contradict/overwrite with our own.  

Again, I think keeping a high-level review of the details is better unless we are purposefully laying the groundwork for something ahead.  Knowing that the file system is on the hard disk, what happens during startup or at execution, and when they open a file isn't important for the lesson.

> NOW, imagine you wanted to have a second computer but you're a cheapskate and don't want to buy a 
> whole new computer because it's too expensive and bringing two laptops to a meeting is a weird flex. 
> What if, instead, you could have another filesystem that you could store and access from your main computer, 
> but was inside your existing computer? 

Reviewer: Again a suggested edit to this text...feel free to accept or not, or to modify the suggested text.

```suggestion
NOW, imagine you wanted to install some software but you don't want to make a mess
of your working system by trying to install lots of additional libraries and other
dependencies that are required by the new software. You could get a second computer
but you don't want to buy a whole new computer because it's too expensive. What if,
instead, you could have another, self-contained, filesystem with your new software
installed in it? This filesystem would be stored within, but isolated from, your main
computer system but you'd be able to access and work with it on your main computer
without affecting your existing software or configuration. 
```

Author: I like the inclusion of the "messing up" bit - it helps to emphasize the cost of complexity and maintenance in the students' minds.

> addition to its own file system and has to get booted up in the same way 
> a computer would. 
> A container is considered a lightweight version of a virtual machine; 
> underneath, the container is using the Linux kernel and simply has some 
> flavor of Linux + the file system inside. 
{: .callout}

One final term: while the **container** is an alternative file system layer that you 
can access and run from your computer, the **container image** is the 'recipe' or template

> for a container. The container image has all the needed information to start 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for a container. The container image has all the required information to start
```

up a running copy of the container. A running container tends to be transient 
and can be started and shut down. The image is more long-lived: as a source file 
for the container. It can also serve as documentation for what is inside the container, 
like the list of ingredients in a cookie recipe. The container image can be used to 
create batches of the same cookie (i.e. multiple containers) and is relatively unchanging, 
whereas the individual cookies come and go. If you want a different type of container 

> (cookie), then you need a different image (recipe).

Reviewer: Just wondering if the use of the term `recipe` is right here? I would normally think of a Dockerfile as being a recipe and the image being the thing generated from that recipe?

> and can be started and shut down. The image is more long-lived: as a source file 
> for the container. It can also serve as documentation for what is inside the container, 
> like the list of ingredients in a cookie recipe. The container image can be used to 
> create batches of the same cookie (i.e. multiple containers) and is relatively unchanging, 
> whereas the individual cookies come and go. If you want a different type of container 
> (cookie), then you need a different image (recipe).

Reviewer: From discussion during our lesson development sprint, this is being reverted to the original text for now, although we plan to revisit this and look at whether we can provide an improved analogy that address this issue.
```suggestion
and can be started and shut down. The image is more long-lived, as a source file for the container. 
You could think of the container image like a cookie cutter -- it 
can be used to create multiple copies of the same shape (or container)
and is relatively unchanging, where cookies come and go. If you want a
different type of container (cookie) you need a different image (cookie cutter).
```
